ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 
MASTER OF TECHNOLOGY (M.Tech.) PROGRAM 
(Effective from 2024 - 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
WARANGAL 
 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

1 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations
 
 
 
Academic Regulations of M.Tech. Programs effective from 2024-25 
 
1. INTRODUCTION:  
Provision of these regulations shall come into force with effect from the academic year 2024 - 
2025 and shall be applicable to all M.Tech. Programs (unless otherwise stated) offered by the 
Institute. 
 
1.1 M.Tech Degree Programs are offered in the following specializations by the respective 
Engineering departments: 
 
S. No. 
Department 
M.Tech Program Name 
1 
Civil Engineering 
1. Engineering Structures 
2. Geotechnical Engineering 
3. Transportation Engineering 
4. Water Resources Engineering 
5. Geoinformatics 
6. Environmental Engineering 
7. Construction Technology and Management 
2 
 
 
 
 
Electrical Engineering 
1. Power Systems Engineering 
2. Power Electronics and Drives 
3. Smart Electric Grid 
4. Control & Automation (Jointly offered with 
Chemical Engineering) 
3 
Mechanical Engineering 
1. Thermal Engineering 
2. Manufacturing Engineering 
3. Computer Integrated Manufacturing 
4. Machine Design 
5. Automobile Engineering 
4 
Electronics and 
Communication Engineering 
1. Embedded and Machine Learning 
Systems 
2. VLSI System Design 
3. Advanced Communication Systems 
5 
Metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering 
1. Materials Technology 
2. Welding Technology & Non-destructive 
Testing 
6 
Chemical Engineering 
1. Chemical Engineering 
2. Sustainable Energy Generation & Storage 
Technologies 
7 
Computer Science and 
Engineering 
1. Computer Science and Engineering 
2. Computer Science and Information Security 
8 
Biotechnology 
1. Biotechnology 
1.2 The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to any new discipline that may be 
introduced from time to time. 
1.3 The medium of instruction for all programs offered in the Institute is English. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

2 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
2. ADMISSION: 
2.1 
Admission to National Institute of Technology Warangal shall be made in accordance 
with the instructions received from the Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India 
from time to time. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes 
(SC), Schedules Tribes (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC), Persons with Disability 
(PWD), Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories as per the guidelines 
issued by MoE, from time to time. 
 
2.2 
Admissions are made on All India basis for all the programs, with reservations as per 
Government of India norms. The selection criterion for admission into all the M.Tech 
programs is based on valid GATE score through CCMT. The sanction of stipend will be 
as per the guidelines prescribed by MoE, Government of India from time to time. 
 
2.3 
The admissions under self-finance M.Tech. Programs will be based on written exam and 
interview conducted by the Department. 
 
2.4 
A limited number of admissions are offered to Armed Officers, Self- Finance and Foreign 
Nationals under Study in India (SII), ICCR etc. in accordance with the rules applicable 
for such admission, from time to time, issued by the MoE. 
 
2.5 
If, any time after admission, it is found that a candidate had not fulfilled all the 
requirements stipulated in the offer of admission, in any form whatsoever, including 
possible misinformation etc., the Dean-Academic shall report the matter to the Senate 
recommending for the cancellation of admission of the candidate. 
 
2.6 
The institute reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her 
to discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her studies on the grounds of 
indiscipline or any misconduct. 
 
2.7 
The decision of the Senate, regarding sections 2.6 and 2.7 above, is final and binding. 
 
2.8 
Candidates must fulfill the medical standards required for admission as prescribed by 
the Institute. 
 
2.9 
Every graduate student of the Institute shall be associated with his/her parent department 
offering the degree program that the student undergoes, throughout his/her study period. 
 
2.10 Candidates seeking admission into M.Tech. in Engineering (including Self-finance) 
should have passed BE/B.Tech or equivalent degree in the subject concerned from a 
recognized University/Institute with not less than 60% marks aggregate or equivalent 
CGPA of 6.5 on a ten point scale for GEN/GENEWS/OBCNCL. In case of SC/ST/PWD 
candidates 55% marks aggregate or equivalent CGPA of 6.0 on a ten point scale is the 
eligibility requirement. 
2.11 Eligibility and other criteria for admissions to M. Tech. courses of the Institute will be 
reviewed and decided by the Senate from time to time. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

3 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
3. COURSE STRUCTURE: 
3.1 An M. Tech. program is of 4-semester duration, out of which 2 semesters is course work 
followed by two semesters of dissertation work. 
3.2 Each M. Tech degree program will typically consist of the following components: 
a) 
Program Core Courses (PCC) 
b) 
Program Elective Courses (PEC) 
c) 
Seminar and Technical Writing 
d) 
Summer Internship / Research Experience 
e) 
Minor and Major Project 
 
3.3 The Departmental Academic Committee – PG & Research (DAC-PG&R) will discuss and 
finalize the exact credits offered for the program for the components of 3.2, the semester-
wise distribution among them, as well as the syllabi of all M. Tech. Programs along with 
course outcomes of each course, course articulation matrix and pre-requisites, from time 
to time and recommend the same to the Senate through Curriculum Development 
Committee for consideration and approval. 
3.4 Assignment of Credits to Courses: Each course has a certain number of credit(s) 
assigned to it depending upon its lectures/tutorials/practical hours as shown below: 
 Lectures and Tutorials: One lecture or tutorial hour per week over the period of one 14 
week semester is assigned one credit.
 Practical: One laboratory hour per week over the period of one 14 week semester is 
assigned half credit.

4. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS: 
A student shall fulfil the following requirements for the award of the M.Tech degree: 
(a) Credit Requirements: Student shall earn a Minimum of 66 – 70 Credits as prescribed 
by the concerned Department with a CGPA of not less than 5.00 for the award of 
Degree. 
(b) The minimum duration for a student for complying with the Degree requirement is 
TWO academic years from the date of first registration for his/her first semester. 
(c) The maximum duration for a student for complying with the Degree requirement is 
FOUR academic years from the date of first registration for his/her first semester. 
5. ACADEMIC CALENDAR: 
The Institute follows a semester system. An academic year generally runs from July through 
April next year and is essentially comprised of two semesters. Typically, the 1st semester starts 
in the 3rd week of July and ends in the last week of November; the 2nd semester starts in the 
second/third week of December and ends in the last week of April. 
5.1 The senate shall approve the schedule of academic activities for an academic year 
including the dates of registration, Mid and End-semester examinations. The duration of 
each semester will normally be of 17 weeks, which includes all examinations. The 
number of effective teaching weeks in a semester shall be 14. 
5.2 Academic calendar is approved by the Senate in the beginning of each academic year, 
which also includes the date of the co-curricular and extra-curricular programs like 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

4 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
Technical seminars / Spring Spree/Institute Fest etc. Both students and faculty are required 
to strictly adhere to the academic calendar for completion of academic activities. 
6. RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENT: 
The Institute is essentially residential in nature. Unless otherwise exempted/permitted, every 
student shall reside in one of the Halls of Residence and be a boarder of a mess to which 
he/she is assigned. The rules relating to the residential requirements are given in Student 
Disciplinary Manual (see https://nitw.ac.in/dms/). 
7. ATTENDANCE: 
Following are the rules relating to attendance requirements: 
7.1 
Every student is expected to have 100% attendance in each course in which he/she has 
registered at the beginning of the semester. However, condonation for shortage of 
attendance up to 20% (i.e., not lower than 80% aggregate attendance in any course) 
may be granted by the Head of the concerned Department. 
7.2 
Additional relaxation up to 15% is allowed in extreme cases such as medical grounds 
requiring hospitalization (minimum 3 days) or calamity in the family (Death/Serious 
illness to blood relatives). Students are required to submit appropriate proofs such as 
case sheet, proof of medical bills, proof of payment of Hospital bill etc. 
7.3 
Attendance relaxation up to 2% is allowed for girl students. Additional relaxation up to 
5% is allowed for girl students in EAA.  
7.4 
Students with orthopedic disability are exempted from EAA. 
7.5 
A student representing the Institute in approved extracurricular activities such as Sports, 
Games, Cultural meets, Seminars, Workshops, Conferences and Interviews arranged 
through Centre for Career Planning and Development (CCPD), NCC/ NSS Camps shall 
be considered as on-duty, subject to a maximum of five working days in a semester. 
Prior permission from the concerned Head of the Department is required for availing on-
duty permission. The period of absence, in such cases, will be counted as ‘present’ for 
the computation of percentage of attendance at the end of semester. 
7.6 
Additional relaxation up to 5 working days is allowed for Placement coordinators. 
7.7 
For the purpose of attendance calculation, every scheduled practical class will count as 
one unit irrespective of the number of contact hours. 
7.8 
Students not having the mandatory requirement of minimum attendance in any course, 
shall not be permitted to appear for the end semester examination in that course, and 
is awarded “R” Grade in that course. Such student has to register for the course in which 
he/she has shortage of attendance, as and when the course is offered next. 
7.9 
If the period of absence is for a short duration (of not more than one week), leave 
application should be submitted to the concerned Head of the Department, stating fully 
the reasons for the leave requested, along with the supporting document(s). The Head 
of the Department shall grant such leave. During such a leave period, the student will be 
marked as absent. Even with this leave applied, the student must satisfy the minimum 
attendance requirement to appear for the end semester examination. 
7.10 If the period of absence exceeds one week, a prior application for grant of leave should 
be submitted through the Head of the Department to the Dean-Academic with supporting 
documents. The decision to grant such leave shall be taken by the Dean- Academic, 
after considering the recommendation of the Head of the Department, provided the 
student can maintain the minimum required attendance. 
7.11 If a student is absent from the institute continuously for more than four weeks without 
notifying the Dean Academic, his/her registration for that semester will stand cancelled. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

5 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
8. LEAVES: 
8.1 An M.Tech student is entitled to the following kinds of leave during every academic year, 
counted from the date of commencement of the session concerned as prescribed in the 
academic calendar of the institute. 
8.2 Any absence over and above the prescribed type of admissible leave shall entail deduction 
from the stipend, beside other action as may be decided by the Institute. 
 
S.No
Leave 
Maximum Number of days 
Sanctioning authority 
1. 
Casual 
Leave 
8 days per semester subjected to the 
condition that such leave will not be allowed 
for more than 5 days at a time. Casual leave 
cannot  be combined with medical leave 
Head of the Department 
(HoD) 
2. 
Medical 
Leave 
8 days per semester 
HoD with Medical 
Certificate from the 
Institute Medical Officer 
 
9. REGISTRATION: 
9.1 Every student is required to register on-line at the commencement of each semester on the 
day(s) notified in the Academic Calendar and collect the registration slip signed by the 
Faculty Advisor. However, Students with backlogs need to report physically before the 
faculty advisor for registration. 
9.2 Percentage attendance for all students will be counted from the date of commencement of 
class work, irrespective of his/her date of registration. However, in case of 1st Semester, 
attendance will be counted from date of admission into the Institute or date of 
commencement of class work, whichever is later. 
9.3 The registration will be organized at the respective Department under the supervision of 
the Head of the Department / Coordinator of a respective specialization / program. 
9.4 A student who does not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted, 
in consideration of any compelling reason, late registration within the next week on payment 
of additional late fee as prescribed by the Institute from time to time. In special cases where 
the delay is beyond one week, Dean Academic may allow, on a case to case basis, for late 
registration with appropriate fee. 
9.5 After registration in each semester, each student should collect a registration sheet, which 
indicates the courses registered by him/her in that semester, signed by the faculty advisor. 
The student should carry this registration sheet for all the examinations in that semester. 
This registration sheet along with Institute ID card serve the purpose of hall ticket for 
appearing the examinations in that semester. 
9.6 A student who has already registered may 
(a) register for a new course in addition to the courses he/she has already registered for 
(OR) 
(b) opt for a new course in place of the one already registered for with the concurrence of the 
faculty advisor. 
Any change of the course as permissible by sub-paras (a) and (b) above must however be done 
within one week after registration and should be intimated to the Dean, Academic. 
9.7 
Every student is required to register every semester without fail. If a student is permitted 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

6 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
to take a semester break, he/she has to register for that particular semester and complete 
it before registering for the subsequent semester. 
9.8 
Only those students will be permitted to register who have 
i. 
Cleared all the Institute and Hostel dues of the previous semesters, 
ii. 
Paid all required fees for the current semester, and 
iii. Not been debarred from registering for a specified period on disciplinary or any other 
ground. 
9.9 
A Student can register for a backlog subject whenever it is offered. His/her previous 
marks/grades are cancelled and will have to attend all classes and examinations as and 
when they are conducted. Alternatively, a student can appear for make-up examination in 
the backlog subject as and when it is conducted. 
10. EVALUATION - Grading System: 
10.1 As a measure of student’s performance, a 7-scale grading system using the following letter 
grades and corresponding grade points per credit shall be followed. Grading will be done 
based on the total marks obtained by the student in that course. 
 
Letter Grade 
S 
A 
B 
C 
D 
P 
U 
Point 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
3 
The total marks obtained in a course shall be used for awarding grades as mentioned 
in the following Table. However, if the faculty feels, the marks may be lowered in each 
of the ranges with a maximum change up to 10 marks.  
 
Letter Grade 
S 
A 
B 
C 
D 
P 
U 
Marks 
90-100 
80-89 
70-79 
60-69 
50-59 
40-49 
< 40 
a) A student, who has not written end semester examination shall be awarded “U” grade.
o Further, there shall be four transitional grading symbols, which can be used by the 
examiners to indicate the special position of a student in the course.
• I: for “Incomplete assessment”, when the student misses the End-semester 
examination on Medical grounds (see rule 11.4). 
• R: for 'Insufficient attendance’ in the course (see Rule 6). 
• W: for "Temporary withdrawal' from the Institute (see rule 17). 
• X: for "Debarred" on grounds of indiscipline/ malpractices in examinations. 
10.2 Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) will be computed for each semester. The SGPA 
will be calculated as follows: 
𝑆𝐺𝑃𝐴=
∑𝐶𝑖𝐺𝑃𝑖
𝑛
1
∑𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
 
 
   where Ci = Credits for the course 
                GPi = the grade point obtained for the course 
                    n = Number of courses registered in the Semester. 
10.3 Starting from I Year II Semester a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be 
computed for every student at the end of every semester. The CGPA would give the 
Cumulative performance of the student from the first semester up to the end of the 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

7 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
semester to which it refers and calculated as follows: 
𝐶𝐺𝑃𝐴= ∑𝑆𝑖𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
∑𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
 
        where, n = the total number of Semesters under consideration 
         Ci = Total number of Credits Registered during a particular Semester   
         Si = SGPA of the Semester. 
10.4 The CGPA, SGPA and the grades obtained in all the subjects in a semester will be 
communicated to every student at the end of every semester excepting last semester. In 
its place a consolidated grade sheet (with 80 credits) will be issued. This consolidated grade 
sheet supersedes all the earlier grade sheets. 
10.5 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to the second place of decimal and recorded as 
such. Whenever these grade point averages are to be used for the purpose of determining 
the inter-se merit ranking of a group of students, only the rounded off values will be used. 
10.6 CGPA to Marks Conversion: CGPA shall be converted into percentage marks, if required, 
using the following formula: 
% marks = (CGPA – 0.5) X 10 
10.7 Transitional Grades: 
a) Grade I: When a student gets “I” Grade for any course(s) during a semester, the SGPA 
of that semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be tentatively calculated 
ignoring this (these) course(s). After these transitional grades have been converted to 
appropriate grades, the SGPA for the semester and CGPA at the end of the semester 
will be recalculated after considering the new grades. 
b) Grades R, W and X: When a student gets any of these transitional grades in any 
course(s) during a semester, the SGPA of that semester and the CGPA at the end of 
that semester will be tentatively calculated by taking ‘zero point’ for these course(s). 
After these transitional grades have been converted to appropriate grades, the SGPA 
for the semester and CGPA at the end of the semester will be recalculated after 
considering the new grades. 
c) 
Grade U: When a student gets the 'U' grade in any course during a semester, the 
SGPA and the CGPA from that semester onwards will be tentatively calculated, taking 
'three point’ for each 'U' grade. After the 'U' grade has been substituted by better grades 
during a subsequent semester, the SGPA and CGPA of all the semesters starting from 
the earliest semester in which the 'U' grade has been updated, will be recomputed and 
recorded to take this change of grade into account. 
 
11. ASSESSMENT OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE: 
11.1 There will be continuous assessment of a student’s performance through class 
tests/Quizzes/Assignments etc. throughout the semester and grades will be awarded by 
the faculty member. 
11.2 Each theory course in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, with following weightages. 
Sub-component 
 
 
           
         Weightage 
(a) Continuous assessment: class tests/ Quizzes/ 
30 marks 
Minors/Assignment etc.  
(b) Mid semester examination  
30 marks  
(c) End-semester Examination 
40 marks 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

8 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
11.3 The mode and nature of the evaluation and the corresponding weightages, for the 
subcomponent (a) shall be intimated to the students at the beginning of the semester 
along with the lecture schedule. 
11.4 If due to any compelling reason (such as his/her illness, calamity in the family etc.) a 
student fails to meet any of the requirements within/on the scheduled date and time, the 
Head of the Department in consultation with the faculty member concerned may take 
such steps (including the conduct of compensatory tests/examinations) as deemed fit. 
11.5 Each laboratory course in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, through continuous 
assessment. The marks for continuous assessment may be distributed among various 
components like class work performance, Lab records, Quizzes, viva, skill tests/ 
assignments/ mini projects. It is not mandatory to conduct end semester examination for 
a laboratory course. However, if it is conducted, the weightage for the end semester 
examination shall be less than or equal to 40 marks. The scheme of evaluation has to 
be informed to students by the respective faculty in the beginning of the laboratory 
course. 
11.6 A Seminar Assessment Committee will be formed by the Head of the Department/Centre 
for the evaluation of performance at Seminars. Every student is expected to attend all 
the seminars of all the students of the batch held in the Department/Centre during the 
semester. Due weightage shall be given to a student's attendance in the overall 
evaluation of this requirement. 
11.7 Comprehensive Viva Evaluation: 
i. The comprehensive viva voce examination carrying 2 credits will cover the entire 
course of study up to 2nd Semester. The viva voce shall be conducted by a committee 
constituted by the Head of the Department. The committee will also have an expert 
from allied Department nominated by Dean, Academic. 
ii. A student who has failed in the comprehensive viva-voce shall be required to present 
himself/herself again within a period of two months for the viva-voce on a date to be 
fixed by the concerned Head of the Department /Centre. 
11.8 Dissertation Evaluation: 
i. The dissertation carried out by a student is evaluated for 32 credits. The dissertation 
shall be submitted as per the schedule given in the academic calendar.  
ii. The dissertation supervisor will periodically review the progress of the student and 
finally give his/her assessment of the work done by the student. 
iii. The Dissertation Part – A will be evaluated for 100 marks, with the following 
weightages: 
Sub-component 
 
 
 
         Weightage 
a) 
Periodic evaluation by Guide 
40 marks 
b) 
Mid-term review 
20 marks 
c) 
End Semester viva-voce examination 
40 marks 
The midterm review and the end semester viva-voce examination will be conducted 
by a committee constituted by the Head of the Department. 
iv. The Dissertation Part – B will be evaluated for 100 marks, with the following 
weightages: 
Sub-component  
 
 
 
         Weightage 
a) Periodic evaluation by Guide 
40 marks 
b) Midterm review 
20 marks 
c) End Semester viva-voce examination 
40 marks 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

9 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
The end semester viva-voce examination will be conducted by External Examiner 
along with an evaluation committee constituted by the Head of the Department. The 
midterm evaluation will be done by the evaluation committee. 
v. A student will be permitted to submit the dissertation only if he/she completes all the 
courses as required in the program. 
vi. The Departments have to evolve rubrics for evaluation of Dissertation Part-A and 
Part-B. The marks may be distributed among various components like selection of 
topic, problem statement, literature review, methodology, oral and written 
presentation of the work done and performance in viva-voce examination. 
vii. Dissertation and Viva-Voce: A student shall be required to submit a report on the 
Dissertation work carried out by him/her. The template for the dissertation report may 
be downloaded from (https://www.nitw.ac.in/main/PGForms/NITW/). The students 
are required to submit a report showing that the plagiarism is within 20% along with 
the three annexures as stipulated in Anti-plagiarism policy. Three/four bound copies 
along with a soft copy of the dissertation shall be submitted to the Head of the 
Department/Centre within the last date prescribed in the Academic Calendar for the 
purpose. Dissertation viva - voce will be held within the date fixed in the academic 
calendar and the grades will be finalized by the committee. 
viii. If the performance of the student in either Dissertation Part-A or Dissertation Part-B 
is not satisfactory, he/ she will be awarded ‘U’ grade. The student has to repeat the 
dissertation work by registering in the next semester. Such students may be given an 
option either to continue with the same topic and with the same guide or change the 
guide and the topic of his/ her dissertation. 
ix. Extension of dissertation work (Part-B) beyond the deadline of submission in very 
special case may be granted by the Dean (Academic) on recommendation of the 
DAC-PG&R for a maximum period of 3 months and he/she will be awarded “I” Grade. 
The viva-voce has to be completed within the extension period. The student shall not 
be eligible either for award of scholarship during the extension period or any 
medal/prize. However, if the student had been absent on medical grounds and his/her 
dissertation had been extended, he/she may be eligible for award of medal or prize, if 
any. If the above-mentioned extension period encroaches into the next semester, the 
student need not pay the tuition fee. 
11.9 The Institute Scholarship of a student will be withheld in case his/her CGPA at the end 
of any semester falls below 6.50. However, in the case of students belonging to 
SC/ST/PWD it is 6.00. The scholarship will be restored with retrospective effect based 
on recommendation of Head of the Department whenever the CGPA crosses at  least 
6.5 (for SC/ST/PWD 6.0). 
 
12. MID AND END-SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS: 
12.1 The Mid and End-semester examinations in respect of theory courses will be conducted 
centrally by the examination branch as per the schedule given in the academic calendar. 
12.2 Head of the Department sends the list of courses registered by each student for the 
semester along with percentage of attendance. 
12.3 Appearing in the end-semester examination in the theory and laboratory (if conducted) 
courses is mandatory for a student. Unless exempted as stated in rule 11.4, if a student 
fails to appear for the end semester examination, he/she shall be awarded ‘U’ grade in 
the course. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

10 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
12.4 However, if a student misses the end-semester examinations due to a compelling reason 
like serious illness which necessitates hospitalization or a calamity in the family, he/she 
may appeal to the Dean-Academic before commencement of examination through 
his/her Head of the Department after getting Medical Officer from Institute Medical 
Officer for permitting himself/herself to appear in the subsequent examination(s), when 
conducted next. A committee consisting of the following members may, after examining 
the documents and being convinced about the merit of the case, recommend permitting 
him/her to appear in the subsequent examination(s), when conducted next, condoning 
his/her absence. In such cases, transitory grade ‘I’ is temporarily awarded to the student 
in the course. Re-end examination will be conducted once in a year, at the time of 
Make-up examination. 
Committee: 
a) Dean-Academic, Chairman. 
b) Dean, Students Welfare 
c) 
Concerned Head of the Department 
d) The Institute Medical officer 
e) Associate Dean, Examinations (Convener) 
12.5 Students will be permitted to appear in the examinations in only those courses for which 
they have registered at the beginning of the semester. 
12.6 The final grades awarded to the students in a course must be submitted by the faculty 
member, within five working days from the date of the last examination to the concerned 
Head of the Department. The Head of the Department shall place the grades of students 
in all courses before the DAC-PG&R for its consideration and recommendation. The 
grades recommended by the DAC-PG&R shall be sent to the examination branch. 
12.7 
Any change of grade of a student in a course consequent upon detection of any genuine 
error of omission and/or commission on part of the concerned faculty member must be 
recommended by the DAC-PG&R and shall be forwarded by the faculty member through 
the Head of the concerned Department within 5 (five) days from the date of publication 
of the results. 
12.8 As a process of learning by students and also to ensure transparency, the answer scripts 
after correction of class tests, written examinations, assignments etc., shall be shown to 
the students within two weeks from the date of test/examination. The performance of the 
students in these examinations shall be discussed in the Class Review Committee 
meeting. 
12.9 In order to ensure transparency in the evaluation of scripts of end-semester examination, 
those answer scripts also shall be shown to the students up to one day before the 
finalization of grades in the DAC-PG&R. Once the Grades are finalized by DAC-PG&R, 
the student will no longer have any right to verify his/her answer scripts. 
12.10 The student can appeal to DAAC for any arbitration within 5 working days from the date 
of official publication of results in the Institute Website. 
 
13. EVALUATION OF INTEGRATED (THEORY + LABORATORY) COURSES: 
13.1 For integrated courses, the criterion of 80% minimum attendance shall be satisfied 
separately in theory and laboratory classes. Otherwise he/she will be awarded ‘R’ grade. 
13.2 The weightage for evaluation shall be based on credit ratio of the theory to laboratory in 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

11 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
that course. For example, in a 2-0-2 (3 credit course), the weightage for the laboratory shall 
be 33% (1/3). For a 3-0-2 or 2-1-2 (4 credit course), the weightage for the laboratory 
shall be 25% (1/4). 
13.3 For the integrated course, the total marks need to be calculated based on the above 
weightage. 
13.4 All the rules for grading applicable to other courses may be followed for grading any 
integrated course. 
13.5 The evaluation scheme for both theory and laboratory components shall be informed to 
the student through lecture plan in the beginning of the course. 
13.6 In case of makeup examination, the student shall be evaluated in both theory and 
laboratory components and after arriving at the total marks based on the weightage, the 
applicable rules shall be followed for awarding a grade. 
 
14. AWARD OF CLASS: 
14.1 First Division with Distinction: A student who has passed all the courses without 
securing R, X, or U Grades during the period of study and with a CGPA of 8.00 and 
above is considered eligible for the award of First Division with Distinction. 
14.2 First Division: 
a) A student failing to satisfy Rule 13.1, even if he/she gets a CGPA of 8.00 or more 
will be eligible for the award of First Division only. 
b) A student with a CGPA of 6.50 and above but less than 8.00 is considered eligible 
for the award of First Division. 
14.3 Second Division: A student with a CGPA of 5.00 and above but less than 6.50 is 
considered eligible for the award of Second Division. 
15. MAKEUP EXAMINATION: 
Makeup examinations will be conducted once in an academic year, during summer. Students 
appearing in Makeup examination shall be governed by the following rules: 
15.1 A Student with 'U' grade(s) can appear in Make-up examination conducted at the end of 
Academic year, or register in Study mode, whenever the course is offered. In case of 
Study mode, his/her previous marks/grades are cancelled and he/she will have to attend 
all classes and examinations along with next batch of students. Major changes in the 
timetable shall not be entertained to accommodate backlog students. 
15.2 Students with “R” Grade in any course are not eligible for writing the makeup 
examination for that course. 
15.3 Students with “U” or “I” Grade only are eligible to write makeup examination. The marks 
obtained by the student in continuous evaluation will be added to the marks obtained in 
makeup examination and will be graded as per the grading used for his/ her class. 
15.4 A student may appear any number of times in the makeup examination in the courses 
in which he / she has obtained "U" grade. 
15.5 A student who has obtained ‘U’ grade in makeup examination may register in the 
subsequent semester for the course in “study” mode. 
15.6 The schedule for makeup examination will be given in the Academic calendar. 
15.7 A student can register for makeup examinations in any number of courses. The schedule 
of makeup examinations will not be altered to suit individual students. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

12 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
16. DISSERTATION WORK IN COLLABORATION WITH INDUSTRY: 
16.1 A student may, with the approval of the Head of the Department/Centre, visit an industry 
or a Research Laboratory for data collection, discussion of the dissertation, experimental 
work, survey, field studies, etc. during the project period. Projects sponsored by the 
industry or Research Laboratories will be encouraged and a close liaison with such 
organizations will be maintained. 
16.2 A student may, with the approval of Head of the Department/Centre, do the dissertation 
work in collaboration with an industry or a Research and Development Organization. 
The student shall acknowledge the involvement and / or contribution of an industry, R&D 
organization in completing the project in his/her dissertation and a certificate to this effect 
issued by the supervisor from the industrial organization will be included in the 
dissertation. 
16.3 It is mandatory for all students (especially those who do their dissertation in an Industry, 
R&D organization in India or abroad) to make full disclosure of all data on which they 
wish to base their dissertation. They cannot claim confidentiality simply because it would 
come into conflict with the Industry’s or R&D laboratory’s own interests. Any tangible 
intellectual property other than copyright of dissertation may have to be assigned to the 
Institute. The copyright of the dissertation itself would however lie with the student as 
per the IPR policy in force. 
16.4 In addition to the Supervisor from the department/center guiding the dissertation work, 
a Joint Supervisor may be appointed from the Industry and Research Laboratory with 
the approval of DAC - PG&R. A certificate from the joint supervisor will be included in 
the dissertation. A member of faculty of the Institute, who is the internal supervisor, may, 
if felt necessary, visit the industry or the Research Laboratory in connection with the 
dissertation work of his/her student. 
17. SUMMER INTERNSHIP (Optional): 
A student may undergo summer internship for a period of eight weeks, if he/she wishes, 
immediately after the completion of 2nd Semester. 
 
18. TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL: 
18.1 A student who has been admitted to an M.Tech. program of the institute may be 
permitted to withdraw temporarily for a period of one semester or more from the Institute 
on grounds of prolonged illness/acute problem in the family, which compelled him/her to 
stay at home, provided that: 
(a) He/she applies to the Institute through Head of the department within 15 days of the 
commencement of the semester or from the last date of attending the classes, 
whichever is later, stating fully the reasons for such withdrawal together with 
supporting documents and endorsement of the parent/guardian. 
(b) The institute is satisfied that, inclusive of the period of withdrawal, the student is 
likely to complete all the requirements for the degree within the time limits specified. 
(c) There are no outstanding dues against him/her or demands from him/her in the 
Institute/ Department/ Hostel / Library etc. 
(d) A student who has been granted temporary withdrawal from the institute under the 
above provisions will be awarded ‘W’ grade. If  the student applies for withdrawal 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

13 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
before start of the semester or within 15 days of the commencement of the semester, 
he/she will be exempted from paying the tuition fee for that semester.  
18.2 A student shall be granted only one such temporary withdrawal during his/her tenure. 
18.3 A student, who wishes to join the job, after successful completion of the entire course 
work, may be permitted to pursue dissertation on part-time basis provided: 
i. 
Sufficient facilities are available in the organization where he/she is working 
ii. 
There is a competent supervisor in the organization 
iii. The minimum period for submission of dissertation work shall be double the 
amount of the balance period. 
iv. The dissertation of such a part-time student shall be under the guidance of two 
supervisors, one from the organization and the other from the Institute. 
v. 
If the student at the time of joining the job has completed substantial part of his/ her 
dissertation work (Part-B) such student may be permitted based on the 
recommendations of DAC-PG&R to submit his/ her thesis along with the regular 
students. There is no need for co-supervisor from his/ her organization. 
 
18. SWAYAM / NPTEL COURSES: 
18.1 A student may complete SWAYAM-NPTEL courses and transfer equivalent credits to 
partially complete the mandatory credit requirements. 
18.2 The Department may permit students to register from other platforms, by taking care of 
evaluation and grading. 
18.3 Before the commencement of each Semester, Parent Department shall release a list of 
SWAYAM-NPTEL courses approved as Departmental Elective/ Open Elective courses 
/MNC courses. 
18.4 A student shall only request for transfer of credits from such notified SWAYAM-NPTEL 
Courses as published by the concerned Departments. 
18.5 SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses are considered for transfer of credits only if the concerned 
student has successfully completed and obtained the SWAYAM-NPTEL Certificate to 
this effect. 
18.6 A student cannot transfer credits from SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses for any other type of 
Courses not permitted in the concerned Curriculum. 
18.7 Students shall register for the approved Courses as per the schedule announced by 
SWAYAM-NPTEL. 
18.8 The credit equivalence for SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses: 12 weeks – 3credits; 8 weeks 
 
 
– 2 credits; 4 weeks – 1 or 0 credits. 
18.9 The marks obtained by the student for such SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses will be converted 
to grades as per the evaluation guidelines (8.1) suggested.  
18.10 A student must submit the original SWAYAM-NPTEL Course Certificates to the Head of 
the Parent Department concerned, with a written request for the transfer of the equivalent 
credits. On verification of the SWAYAM-NPTEL Course Certificates and approval by the 
Head of the Department concerned, the SWAYAM-NPTEL Course(s) and equivalent 
Credits will be included in Course (with associated Credits) Registration of the concerned 
student in the Semester immediately following the completion of the SWAYAM-NPTEL 
Course(s). 
18.11 If any faculty is assigned for the evaluation of the courses taken through these platforms, 
he/she can evaluate like any regular course by following the assessment and evaluation 
guidelines. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

14 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations 
 
 
 
18.12 The Institute shall not reimburse any fees/expenses, a student may incur for the 
SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses. 
 
19. EXIT POLICY FOR M.Tech.: 
The student is permitted to exit with a PG Diploma based on the student’s request at the end 
of first year subjected to passing all the courses in first year and comprehensive viva voce. 
 
20. INTEGRATED M.Tech-PhD: 
20.1 M.Tech students of NIT Warangal with a CGPA more than 8.00 (Open/OBC) / 7.50 (for 
SC/ST/PWD) at the end of first year are eligible for Full Time Ph.D.  
20.2 The selection of the student is based on the merit in the written test and the interview 
conducted by the department 
20.3 The student has to complete 15 credits after getting enrolled into Ph.D.  
20.4 A maximum of 25% seats may be allotted from the quota of the Ph.D. fellowships allotted 
to the department.  
20.5 All the other regulations are same as that of Full-Time PhD scholars. 
20.6 The student will be given an exit option at the end of two years. 
 
21. STUDENT FEEDBACK: 
It is mandatory for every student to submit the feedback on each and every course, he/she has 
undergone, at the end of every semester. At the end of 8th semester, Exit feedback is also to 
be submitted. Results will be withheld for those students who have not submitted the feedback. 
All such students have to a) pay a fine of Rs. 500/- b) obtain permission from Dean (Academic) 
and c) fill the feedback for viewing the withheld result. 
 
22. CHANGE OF REGULATIONS: 
The academic programs of the Institute are governed by Rules and Regulations approved by 
the Senate from time to time. The Senate is a statutory and supreme body that governs all 
academic matters of the Institute, and the rulings of the Chairman, Senate (Director of The 
Institute) are final in regard to all academic issues. 
 
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate, has the right to modify any of the 
above rules and regulations from time to time. All such modifications shall be documented and 
numbered sequentially and shall be made available in the Institute website in the Institute 
website under Ordinances. 
  


--- PAGE BREAK ---

15 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations
 
 
 
 
ACADEMIC COMMITTEES: FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Committee 
Constitution of the 
Committee 
Guidelines 
Functions 
DEPARTMENTAL ACADEMIC COMMITTE – PG&R  
(DAC-PG&R) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Department 
Members: All 
Professors and 
Associate Professors 
and Faculty Advisors, 
Program Coordinators 
 Tenure: two years. 
 
There shall be one DAC- 
PG&R for every 
department, which is 
involved in the teaching 
for any of the M.Tech. 
program. 
 
The Head of the 
department will nominate 
one of the members as 
secretary. 
 To monitor the conduct of all 
postgraduate courses offered 
by the Department and course 
work of M.Tech program. 
 To ensure academic standards 
and excellence of the courses 
offered by the department. 
 Review and Recommend the 
grades to senate for approval. 
 To consolidate the registration 
of the students and 
communicate to the course 
instructor and Dean- Academic. 
 To consider any matter related 
to the postgraduate program(s) 
of the Department. 
 To take up any responsibility or 
function assigned by the 
Senate or the Chairman of the 
Senate or Chairman of DAC- 
PG&R. 
 To report the cases of 
malpractices to the 
Malpractices and Disciplinary 
Action Committee. 
CLASS REVIEW COMMITTEEE 
(CRC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Dept. / Senior Faculty of 
the Department 
concerned, preferably 
not associated with 
teaching of the class, to 
be nominated by the 
Head of the Department 
concerned. 
Members: All faculty 
members handling the 
class, four students, to 
be chosen by the 
students of the class 
from amongst 
themselves. 
Convener / Secretary: 
Faculty advisor of the 
Every Class (group of 
students registered for 
a course and taking 
the course together in 
a section/class) of the 
M.Tech Program shall 
have a Class Review 
Committee, consisting 
of Faculty and Students. 
 The Class Review Committee 
shall meet at least twice in a 
semester, once between four to 
five weeks and another 
between eight to nine weeks 
after the commencement of 
classwork. 
 The basic responsibilities of the 
Class Review Committee are to 
review periodically the progress 
of the classes, to discuss 
problems concerning curriculum 
and syllabi and the conduct of 
the classes. 
 The committee will review the 
performance of the class in 
various exams conducted as 
part of continuous evaluation till 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

16 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations
 
 
 
class 
Tenure: One Semester 
that date. 
 Each CRC will communicate its 
recommendations to the Head 
of the Department / DAC- 
PG&R of the parent teaching 
department. 
 The minutes of each CRC 
meeting shall be recorded in a 
separate register maintained in 
the parent/teaching 
department. 
 Any appropriate responsibility 
or function assigned by the 
DAC- PG&R or the chairman of 
the DAC- PG&R 
DEPARTMENTAL ACADEMIC APPEALS 
COMMITTEE (DAAC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Department 
Members: Three faculty 
members of the 
Department consisting of 
one Professor, one 
Associate Prof. and 
one Asst. Prof. 
 Nominee: One 
Professor from outside 
the Department 
nominated by Dean- 
Academic 
 There shall be one DAAC 
for every department. 
 The Chairman may co-opt 
and / or invite more 
members. 
 If the concerned instructor 
is a member of DAAC then 
he/she shall keep himself 
out of the Committee 
during deliberations. 
 The quorum for each 
meeting shall be a 
minimum of THREE 
(Professor from outside 
department is mandatory). 
 To receive grievance 
/complaints in writing from the 
students regarding anomaly in 
award of grades due to bias, 
victimization, erratic evaluation, 
etc. and redress the 
complaints. 
 To interact with the concerned 
course instructor and the 
student separately before 
taking the decision. 
 The decision of the DAAC will 
be based on simple majority 
 The recommendations of the 
DAAC shall be communicated 
to the Dean-Academic for 
further appropriate action as 
required. 
CURRICULUM 
DEVELOPMENT 
COMMITTEE (CDC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Dept. 
Members: All professors 
and Associate 
Professors; 
Three External 
members: One from 
Academics, One from 
Industry, One from R&D 
labs (One of the above 
may be an alumnus) 
 All the members must 
possess Ph. D. 
 The Chairman will 
nominate one of the 
members as secretary. 
 The Chairman may co-opt 
and / or invite more 
members including 
external experts while 
framing / revising the 
curriculum. 
 To develop the curriculum for 
the postgraduate courses 
offered by the department and 
recommend the same to the 
Senate. 
 The CDC is required to meet 
at least once in two years. 
 To review the internal audit 
reports submitted by faculty 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

17 | P a g e 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
M.Tech. – Regulations
 
 
 
ACADEMIC AUDIT 
COMMITTEE – 
DEPT. (AACD) 
Chairman: Professor 
nominated by Director 
Members: One 
Department Nominee 
Convener/Secretary: 
Head of the Department 
 The duration of the 
members of the committee 
will be two years 
 To recommend corrective 
measures, if any. 
 To send a consolidated report 
to Academic Audit Committee – 
Institute 
ACADEMIC AUDIT 
COMMITTEE – 
INSTITUTE (AACI) 
Chairman: Director 
 Members: Dean 
(Academic), Two 
professors nominated 
by Director 
 The members of the 
duration of the committee 
is TWO years. 
 To review the 
recommendations of AACD of 
each department 
 To initiate appropriate 
measures (counseling / training 
etc.). 
FACULTY ADVISOR 
Faculty Advisors: 
nominated by the Head 
of the Department 
 In case of PG, One 
Faculty advisor for each 
program. 
 To help the Students in 
planning their courses and 
activities during study. 
 To guide, advice and counsel 
the students on academic 
program and registration. 
 To register the students for the 
course work in both the even 
and odd semesters. 
 To present the results of even 
and odd semesters to DAC- 
PG&R 
 
