w.e.f. 2024-25 
1 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 
UG PROGRAMS 
B. Tech. & B.Sc. B.Ed. 
(Effective from 2024 - 2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
WARANGAL 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
2 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Academic Regulations of UG (B.Tech. and B.Sc. B.Ed.) Programs 
(Effective from 2024-25) 
 
1. INTRODUCTION:  
Provision of these regulations shall come into force with effect from the academic year 2024-
2025 and shall be applicable to all B. Tech courses (unless otherwise stated) offered by the 
Institute. 
 
1.1 B.Tech. Degree Programs are offered in the following specializations by the respective 
engineering departments. 
 
S No Department 
B. Tech Program Name 
1 
Civil Engineering 
Civil Engineering 
2 
Electrical Engineering 
Electrical and Electronics Engineering 
3 
Mechanical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
4 
 
 
Electronics and 
Communication Engineering 
i. Electronics and Communication 
Engineering    
ii. Electronics and Communication 
Engineering  (VLSI Design Technology)  
5 
Metallurgical and Materials 
Engineering 
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering 
6 
Chemical Engineering 
Chemical Engineering 
7 
Computer Science and 
Engineering 
i. Computer Science and Engineering 
ii. Computer Science and Engineering 
(Artificial Intelligence & Data Science)  
8 
Biotechnology 
Biotechnology 
9 
Mathematics 
Mathematics and Computing;  
 
1.2 B.Sc. BEd. Degree Program is coordinated by the Department of Mathematics. 
1.3 The provisions of these regulations shall be applicable to any new discipline that may be 
introduced from time to time. 
1.4 The medium of instruction for all programs offered in the Institute is English 
1.5 Prescribed service courses for all the programs listed in 1.1 are supported by a) 
Mathematics b) Humanities and Social Sciences c) Physics d) Chemistry e) Department 
of Management Studies and f) Centre for Sports Activities. 
 
2. 
ADMISSION: 
2.1 Admission to National Institute of Technology Warangal shall be made in accordance with 
the instructions received from the Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India from 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
3 | P a g e 
 
time to time. Seats are reserved for candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC), 
Schedules Tribes (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC), Persons with Disability (PWD), 
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and other categories as per the guidelines issued by 
MoE from time to time. 
2.2 Admission to all courses shall be made in the odd semester of each academic year at the 
first-year level based on the relative performance in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE 
– Mains) as per the guidelines issued by the MoE, New Delhi from time to time.
2.3 A limited number of admissions are offered to Foreign Nationals and Indians living abroad 
under DASA, Study in India (SII), ICCR, COMPEX etc. in accordance with the rules 
applicable for such admission, from time to time, issued by the MoE. 
2.4 If, any time after admission, it is found that a candidate had not fulfilled all the requirements 
stipulated in the offer of admission, in any form whatsoever, including possible 
misinformation etc., the Dean-Academic shall report the matter to the Senate 
recommending for the cancellation of admission of the candidate. 
2.5 The institute reserves the right to cancel the admission of any student and ask him/her to 
discontinue his/her studies at any stage of his/her studies on the grounds of indiscipline or 
any misconduct. 
2.6 The decision of the Senate, regarding sections 2.4 and 2.5 above, is final and binding. 
2.7 Candidates must fulfill the medical standards required for admission as prescribed by the 
Institute. 
2.8 There will be no branch change at the end of first year. 
2.9 Every Undergraduate student of the Institute shall be associated with parent department 
offering the degree program that the student undergoes, throughout his/her study period. 
3. 
COURSE STRUCTURE:
3.1 The total course structure for B.Tech. Degree Program typically consists of the following
components: 
a)
Basic Science Core (BSC)
b)
Engineering Science Core (ESC)
c)
Humanities and Social Science Core (HSC)
d)
Program Core Courses (PCC)
e)
Program Elective Courses (PEC)
f)
Open Elective Courses (OPC)
g)
Program Minor and Major Project (PRC)
h)
Mandatory Non-Credit courses (MNC)
Note:
a)
Open Elective Courses can be in any of the following areas: Basic Sciences, 
Engineering Science Courses, Humanities & Social Sciences and Management.
b)
A student will not be permitted to register open elective course offered by the parent 
department.
c)
The allotment of the open elective course shall be based on CGPA and the preference 
of the student.
d)
Mandatory Non-Credit courses include: Extra Academic Activity in the first two 
semesters
3.2 The DAC - UG along with external members will discuss and finalize the exact credits 
offered for the program for the components (a) to (h) of 3.1, the semester-wise distribution 
among them, as well as the syllabi of all courses offered by the Department along with 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
4 | P a g e 
 
course outcomes of each course, course articulation matrix and pre-requisites, from time 
to time and recommend the same to the Senate through Curriculum Development 
Committee for consideration and approval. 
3.3 Every student admitted into the first year is required to register, and complete satisfactorily, 
the Mandatory Non-Credit courses: Extra- Academic Activity (E.A.A. = Games & 
Sports and Yoga and Wellness) in the first two semesters. Students, who could not 
successfully complete EAA in both of the semesters of the first year, will have to 
satisfy this requirement before the end of Second year. Interested students can also 
enroll in NCC / NSS. 
3.4 Assignment of Credits to Courses: Each course has a certain number of credit(s) 
assigned to it depending upon its lectures/tutorials/practical hours as shown below: 

Lectures and Tutorials: One lecture or tutorial hour per week over the period of one
14 week semester is assigned one credit.

Practical/Practice: One laboratory/practice hour per week over the period of one 14-
week semester is assigned half credit.
 3.5  DEGREE REQUIREMENTS: 
A student shall fulfil the following requirements for the award of the B.Tech. degree: 
(a) Credit Requirements: Student shall earn a min. of (150 to 160) Credits as prescribed in
the curriculum of the respective Department with a CGPA of not less than 5.00.
(b) A student shall also complete the specified mandatory non-credit courses satisfactorily
(Refer to rule 3.3)
(c) The minimum duration for a student for complying with the Degree requirement is FOUR
academic years from the date of first registration for his/her first semester.
(d) The maximum duration for a student for complying with the Degree requirement is
EIGHT academic years from the date of first registration for his/her first semester.
4. 
ACADEMIC CALENDAR:
The Institute follows a semester system. An academic year generally runs from July through
April next year and is essentially comprised of two semesters. Typically, the 1st semester starts
in the 3rd week of July and ends in the last week of November; the 2nd semester starts in the
second/third week of December and ends in the last week of April.
The Senate shall approve the schedule of academic activities for an academic year including
the dates of registration, Mid and End-semester examinations. The duration of each semester
will normally be of 17 weeks, which includes all examinations. The number of effective teaching
weeks in a semester shall be 14.
Academic calendar is approved by the Senate in the beginning of each academic year, which
also includes the dates of the co-curricular and extra-curricular programs like Technozion /Spring
Spree/Institute Fest/ Farewell Day etc. Both students and faculty are required to strictly adhere
to the academic calendar for completion of academic activities.
5. 
RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENT:
The Institute is essentially residential in nature. Unless otherwise exempted/permitted, every
student shall reside in one of the Halls of Residence and be a boarder of a mess to which he/she
is assigned. The rules relating to the residential requirements are given in Student Disciplinary
Manual (see https://nitw.ac.in/dms/).


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
5 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
ATTENDANCE: 
Following are the rules relating to attendance requirements: 
6.1 Every student is expected to have 100% attendance in each course in which he/she has 
registered at the beginning of the semester. However, condonation for shortage of 
attendance up to 20% (i.e., not lower than 80% aggregate attendance in any course) may 
be granted by the Head of the concerned Department. 
6.2 
Additional relaxation up to 15% is allowed in extreme cases such as medical grounds 
requiring hospitalization (minimum 3 days) or calamity in the family (Death/Serious illness 
to blood relatives). Students are required to submit appropriate proofs such as case 
sheet, proof of medical bills, proof of payment of Hospital bill etc. 
6.3 
Attendance relaxation up to 2% is allowed for girl students. Additional relaxation up to 5% 
is allowed for girl students in EAA.  
6.4 
Students with orthopedic disability are exempted from EAA. 
6.5 
A student representing the Institute in approved extracurricular activities such as Sports, 
Games, Cultural meets, Seminars, Workshops, Conferences and Interviews arranged 
through Centre for Career Planning and Development (CCPD), NCC/ NSS Camps shall 
be considered as on-duty, subject to a maximum of five working days in a semester. 
Prior permission from the concerned Head of the Department is required for availing on-
duty permission. The period of absence, in such cases, will be counted as ‘present’ for 
the computation of percentage of attendance at the end of semester. 
6.6 
Additional relaxation up to 5 working days is allowed for Placement coordinators. 
6.7 
For the purpose of attendance calculation, every scheduled practical class will count as 
one unit irrespective of the number of contact hours. 
6.8 
Students not having the mandatory requirement of minimum attendance in any course, 
shall not be permitted to appear for the end semester examination in that course, and 
is awarded “R” Grade in that course. Such student has to register for the course in which 
he/she has shortage of attendance, as and when the course is offered next. 
6.9 
If the period of absence is for a short duration (of not more than one week), leave 
application should be submitted to the concerned Head of the Department, stating fully 
the reasons for the leave requested, along with the supporting document(s). The Head of 
the Department shall grant such leave. During such a leave period, the student will be 
marked as absent. Even with this leave applied, the student must satisfy the minimum 
attendance requirement to appear for the end semester examination. 
6.10 If the period of absence exceeds one week, a prior application for grant of leave should 
be submitted through the Head of the Department to the Dean-Academic with supporting 
documents. The decision to grant such leave shall be taken by the Dean- Academic, after 
considering the recommendation of the Head of the Department, provided the student 
can maintain the minimum required attendance. 
6.11 If a student is absent from the institute continuously for more than four weeks without 
notifying the Dean Academic, his/her registration for that semester will stand cancelled. 
 
7. 
REGISTRATION: 
7.1 Every student is required to register on-line at the commencement of each semester on the 
day(s) notified in the Academic Calendar and collect the registration slip signed by the 
Faculty Advisor. However, Students with backlogs need to report physically before the 
faculty advisor for registration. 
 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
6 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
7.2 Percentage of attendance will be counted from the date of commencement of class work, 
irrespective of his/her date of registration. However, in case of 1st Semester, attendance will 
be counted from date of admission into the Institute or date of commencement of class 
work, whichever is later. 
7.3 The registration will be organized at the respective Department under the supervision of the 
Head of the Department. 
7.4 A student who does not register on the day announced for the purpose may be permitted, 
in consideration of any compelling reason, late registration within the next week on payment 
of additional late fee as prescribed by the Institute from time to time. In special cases where 
the delay is beyond one week, Dean Academic may allow, on a case to case basis, for late 
registration with appropriate fee. 
7.5 After registration in each semester, each student should collect a registration sheet, which 
indicates the courses registered by him/her in that semester, signed by the faculty advisor. 
The student should carry this registration sheet for all the examinations in that semester. 
This registration sheet along with the Institute ID card serve the purpose of hall ticket for 
appearing for the examinations in that semester. 
7.6 If a student finds his/her load heavy in any semester, or for any other valid reason, he/she 
can add/drop some courses within one week from the commencement of the class work 
in the semester with the written approval of his/her Faculty Advisor and Head of the 
Department, with an intimation to Dean-Academic. 
7.7 Every student is required to register every semester without fail. If a student is permitted to 
take a semester break, he/she has to register for that particular semester and complete it 
before registering for the subsequent semester.  
7.8 Only those students will be permitted to register who have 
i. Cleared all the Institute and Hostel dues of the previous semesters, 
ii. Paid all required fees for the current semester, and 
iii. Not been debarred/suspended from registering for a specified period on disciplinary 
or any other ground. 
7.9 A student may register the backlog courses, giving priority to the oldest backlog courses 
being offered in a semester. The maximum credits (including backlog courses) that a 
student can register in the study mode in a semester is 30. 
7.10 Final year B.Tech. Students are eligible to take courses of I Year M.Tech programs of their 
parent department as electives. 
7.11 PROMOTION RULES: 
a) From I Year to II Year: To be able to register in the 3rd Semester, a student should 
have completed, with P or better grade, at least 22 credits at the end of 1st Semester, 
2nd Semester and make up examinations put together. 
b) From II Year to III Year: For promotion to Third year, a student should have (i) Cleared 
all the Course Work requirements of I Year and (ii) passed, with P or better Grade, at 
least 24 credits in 3rd Semester, 4th Semester and make up examinations put together. 
c) From III Year to IV Year: For promotion to Fourth year, a student should have (i) Cleared 
all the Course Work requirements of I Year, II Year and (ii) passed, with P or better Grade, 
at least 24 credits in 5th Semester, 6th Semester and make up examinations put together. 
d) ODD to EVEN Semester: There are no restrictions for promotion from odd semester 
to even semester in an academic year. 
 
 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
7 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EVALUATION – Grading System: 
8.1 As a measure of student’s performance, a 7-scale grading system using the following letter 
grades and corresponding grade points per credit shall be followed. Grading will be done 
based on the total marks obtained by the student in that course. 
 
Letter Grade 
S 
A 
B 
C 
D 
P 
U 
Point 
10 
9 
8 
7 
6 
5 
3 
However, if the faculty feels, the marks may be lowered with a maximum change up to 
10 marks in each range.  
Letter Grade 
S 
A 
B 
C 
D 
P 
U 
Marks 
90-100 
80-89 
70-79 
60-69 
50-59 
40-49 
< 40 
 
o A student, who has not written end semester examination shall be awarded “U” grade.
o Further, there shall be four transitional grading symbols, which can be used by the 
examiners to indicate the special position of a student in the course.
• I: for “Incomplete assessment”, when the student misses the End-semester 
examination on Medical grounds (see rule 10.4). 
• R: for 'Insufficient attendance’ in the course (see Rule 6). 
• W: for "Temporary withdrawal' from the Institute (see rule 19). 
• X: for "Debarred" on grounds of indiscipline/ malpractices in examinations 
(https://nitw.ac.in/dms/). 
 
8.2 Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) will be computed for each semester. The SGPA will 
be calculated as follows: 
𝑆𝐺𝑃𝐴=
∑𝐶𝑖𝐺𝑃𝑖
𝑛
1
∑𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
 
where Ci is Credits for the course, GPi is the grade point obtained for the course and n is 
Number of courses registered in the semester. 
8.3 Starting from I Year II Semester Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) will be computed 
for every student at the end of every semester. The CGPA would give the Cumulative 
performance of the student from the first semester up to the end of the semester to which 
it refers and calculated as follows: 
𝐶𝐺𝑃𝐴=
∑𝑆𝑖𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
∑𝐶𝑖
𝑛
1
 
where n is the total number of Semesters under consideration, Ci is the total number of 
Credits Registered during a particular semester and Si is the SGPA of the Semester. 
8.4 The CGPA, SGPA and the grades obtained in all the courses in a semester will be 
communicated to every student at the end of every semester through a grade sheet. A 
consolidated grade sheet will be issued in the final semester, i.e., 8th Semester. This 
consolidated grade sheet supersedes all the earlier grade sheets. 
8.5 Both SGPA and CGPA will be rounded off to the second place of decimal and recorded as 
such. Whenever these grade point averages are to be used for the purpose of determining 
the inter-se merit ranking of a group of students, only the rounded off values will be used. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
8 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
8.6 CGPA to Marks Conversion: 
CGPA shall be converted into percentage marks, if required, using the following formula: 
% marks = (CGPA – 0.5) X 10 
8.7 Transitional Grades: 
a) Grade I: When a student gets “I” Grade for any course(s) during a semester, the SGPA 
of that semester and the CGPA at the end of that semester will be tentatively calculated 
ignoring this (these) course(s). After these transitional grades have been converted to 
appropriate grades, the SGPA for the semester and CGPA at the end of the semester 
will be recalculated after considering the new grades. 
b) Grades R, W and X: When a student gets any of these transitional grades in any 
course(s) during a semester, the SGPA of that semester and the CGPA at the end of that 
semester will be tentatively calculated by taking ‘zero point’ for these course(s). After 
these transitional grades have been converted to appropriate grades, the SGPA for the 
semester and CGPA at the end of the semester will be recalculated after considering the 
new grades. 
c) Grade U: When a student gets the 'U' grade in any course during a semester, the SGPA 
and the CGPA from that semester onwards will be tentatively calculated, taking 'three 
points’ for each 'U' grade. After the 'U' grade has been substituted by better grades 
during a subsequent semester, the SGPA and CGPA of all the semesters starting from 
the earliest semester in which the 'U' grade has been updated, will be recomputed and 
recorded to take this change of grade into account. 
 
9. 
ASSESSMENT OF ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE: 
9.1 There will be continuous assessment of a student's performance through class tests/ 
quizzes/ Assignments etc. throughout the semester and grades will be awarded by the 
course faculty member formed for this purpose. 
9.2 Each theory course in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, with the following weightages. 
 
Sub-component 
 
 
 
 
         Weightage 
(a) Continuous assessment: Class tests/ Quizzes/ 
30 marks 
Minors/Assignment etc.  
(b) Mid semester examination 
30 marks 
(c) End-semester Examination 
40 marks 
9.3 If a course is offered to more than one section in a given semester, it is not mandatory to 
follow common evaluation. The question papers both in continuous and end semester 
evaluations need not be similar. The evaluation and grading can be separate for each of the 
sections. However, in case of common question paper, common evaluation shall be 
followed. 
9.4 The mode and nature of the evaluation and the corresponding weightages, for the 
subcomponent (a) shall be intimated to the students at the beginning of the semester along 
with the lecture schedule. 
9.5 If due to any compelling reason (such as his/her illness, calamity in the family etc.) a student 
fails to meet any of the requirements within/on the scheduled date and time, the faculty 
member in consultation with the concerned the Head of the  Department  may  take  such  


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
9 | P a g e 
  
 
 
 
 
 
steps (including the conduct of compensatory tests/mid semester examinations) as 
deemed fit. 
9.6 Each laboratory course in a semester is evaluated for 100 marks, through continuous 
assessment. The marks for continuous assessment may be distributed among various 
components like class work performance, Lab records, Quizzes, viva, skill tests/ 
assignments/ mini projects. It’s not mandatory to conduct end semester examination 
for a laboratory course. However, if it is conducted, the weightage for the end semester 
examination shall be less than or equal to 40 marks. The scheme of evaluation has to be 
informed to students by the respective faculty in the beginning of the laboratory course. 
9.7 Major Project: Major Project is a 6-credit course and is offered in the 8th Semester. The 
method of evaluation should be as per the guidelines stipulated for the B.Tech. Project 
evaluation. The template for preparation of the project report may be downloaded from 
(https://www.nitw.ac.in/main/UGForms/NITW/). The students are required to submit a 
report showing that the plagiarism is within 30% along with the three annexures as 
stipulated in Anti-plagiarism policy. The B.Tech. Project work will be evaluated for 100 
marks, with the following weightages: 
 
Sub-component 
 
 
 
 
        Weightage 
Periodic evaluation by Guide 
40 marks 
Mid-term review 
20 marks 
End Semester viva-voce examination 
40 marks 
The midterm review and the end semester viva-voce examination will be conducted by a 
committee constituted by the Head of the Department. If the performance of a student is 
not satisfactory, he/ she can be awarded ‘U’ grade. Such a student will be given a 
maximum time of three months to improve his/her performance. If the performance of such 
a student is not satisfactory even after the extended time period, he/ she will have to repeat 
the project work in the next academic year. 
The Departments have to evolve rubrics for the evaluation of Project work. The marks 
may be distributed among various components like selection of topic, problem statement, 
literature review, methodology, oral and written presentation of the work done and 
performance in viva-voce examination. 
9.8 Summer/research Internship/Engineering Projects in community service (EPICS) 
 Every student has to undergo either Summer Internship or EPICS Project. 
 The summer internship may be undergone in an industry/Research organization or any 
premier Academic Institution, including NIT Warangal for 6-8 weeks. 
 The EPICS/research project shall be registered under the guidance of any faculty 
member in the Institute. 
 The student is required to submit a report and present the work before an evaluation 
committee, nominated by the Head of the Department. 
 The Departments have to evolve rubrics for the evaluation of summer/research 
internship/EPICS project. 
9.9 Slow learners: 
 
A student of 1st semester gets an SGPA < 5.00 or a student of any other semester scores 
CGPA < 5.00 for two consecutive semesters, Parents/guardians must visit the institute 
and promise to monitor and counsel their child.  
 
A student will be compulsorily put in slow pace, if he/she secures CGPA < 5.00 in any 
two consecutive semesters.  


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
10 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Students of 3rd or higher semesters will be permitted to register in the next higher 
semester only in slow pace. 
 
He/she will be allowed to take maximum 3 theory and all lab courses in a semester.  
 
If at the end of 3rd consecutive semester of poor performance, a student still fails to 
improve CGPA > 5.00, he/she may still be permitted to register with following restrictions: 
(only if the CGPA has improved over the previous semester) 
 
The student will enroll only in the Backlog, R and U grade courses with no new 
course of current semester  
 
He/she has to secure a SGPA ≥ 5.50 or CGPA ≥ 5.00 at the close of a semester to qualify 
for normal course load. 
 
10 END-SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS: 
10.1 The End-semester examinations in respect of theory courses will be conducted centrally 
by the examination branch as per the schedule given in the academic calendar. 
10.2 Head of the Department sends the list of courses registered by each student for the 
semester along with percentage of attendance. 
10.3 Appearing in the end-semester examination in the theory and laboratory (if conducted) 
courses is mandatory for a student. Unless exempted as stated in rule 10.4, if a student 
fails to appear for the end semester examination, he/she shall be awarded ‘U’ grade in 
the course. 
10.4 However, if a student misses the end-semester examinations due to a compelling reason 
like serious illness of himself/herself which necessitates hospitalization or a calamity in 
the family, he/she may appeal to the Dean-Academic before commencement of 
examination through his/her Head of the Department after getting medical certificate from 
Institute Medical Officer for permitting himself/herself to appear in the subsequent 
examination(s), when conducted next. A committee consisting of the following members 
may, after examining the documents and being convinced about the merit of the case, 
recommend permitting him/her to appear in the subsequent examination(s), when 
conducted next, condoning his / her absence. In such cases, transitory grade ‘I’ is 
temporarily awarded to the student in the course. Re-end examination will be 
conducted once in a year, at the time of Make-up examination. 
Sub-committee: 
Dean-Academic, Chairman. 
Dean, Student Welfare 
Concerned Head of the Department 
The Institute Medical officer 
Professor-in-Charge, Examinations (Convener) 
10.5 Students will be permitted to appear in the examinations in only those courses for which 
they have registered at the beginning of the semester. 
10.6 The final grades awarded to the students in a course must be submitted by the faculty 
member, within five working days from the date of the last examination to the concerned 
Head of the Department. The Head of the Department shall place the grades of students 
in all courses before the DAC-UG for its consideration and recommendation. The grades 
recommended by the DAC-UG shall be sent to the examination branch. 
10.7 Any change of grade of a student in a course consequent upon detection of any genuine 
error of omission and/or commission on part of the concerned faculty member must be 
recommended by the DAC-UG and shall be forwarded by the faculty member through 
the Head of the concerned Department within 20 (twenty) days from the date of 
publication of results. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
11 | P a g 
 
10.8 As a process of learning by students and also to ensure transparency, the answer scripts 
after correction of class tests, minors, written examinations, assignments etc., shall be 
shown to the students within two weeks from the date of test/examination. The faculty 
must submit the marks obtained in continuous evaluation to the Head of the Department. 
The performance of the students in these examinations shall be discussed in the Class 
Review Committee meeting. 
10.9 In order to ensure transparency in the evaluation of scripts of end-semester examination, 
those answer scripts also shall be shown to the students up to one day before the 
finalization of grades in the DAC-UG. Once the Grades are finalized by DAC-UG, the 
student will no longer have any right to verify his/her answer scripts. 
10.10 The student can appeal to Departmental Academic Appeals Committee (DAAC) for any 
arbitration within 5 working days (127.12.12) from the date of official publication of results 
in the Institute Website. 
11. EVALUATION OF INTEGRATED (THEORY + LABORATORY) COURSES:
11.1 For integrated courses, the criterion of minimum attendance shall be satisfied separately
in theory and laboratory classes. Otherwise he/she will be awarded ‘R’ grade. 
11.2 The weightage for evaluation shall be based on credit ratio of the theory to laboratory in 
that course. For example, in a 2-0-2 (3 credit course), the weightage for the laboratory 
shall be 33% (1/3). For a 3-0-2 or 2-1-2 (4 credit course), the weightage for the laboratory 
shall be 25% (1/4). 
11.3 For the integrated course, the total marks need to be calculated based on the above 
weightage. 
11.4 All the rules for grading applicable to other courses may be followed in toto for grading 
any integrated course. 
11.5 The evaluation scheme for both theory and laboratory components shall be informed to 
the student through lecture plan in the beginning of the course. 
11.6 In case of makeup examination, the student shall be evaluated in both theory and 
laboratory components and after arriving at the total marks based on the weightage, the 
applicable rules shall be followed for awarding a grade. 
12. MANDATORY NON-CREDIT COURSES:
Extra Academic Activity (E.A.A. = Games & Sports and Yoga and Wellness) in the first wo 
semesters. They are executed by the Centre for Sports Activities 
13. SWAYAM / NPTEL COURSES:
13.1 A student may complete SWAYAM-NPTEL courses and transfer equivalent credits to
partially complete the mandatory credit requirements of the concerned B.Tech. Program. 
13.2 The Department may permit students to register from other platforms, by taking care of 
evaluation and grading. 
13.3 Before the commencement of each Semester, Parent Department shall release a list of 
SWAYAM-NPTEL courses approved as Departmental Elective/ Open Elective courses. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
12 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
13.4 A student shall only request for transfer of credits from such notified SWAYAM-NPTEL 
Courses as published by the concerned Departments. 
13.5 SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses are considered for transfer of credits only if the concerned 
student has successfully completed and obtained the SWAYAM-NPTEL Certificate to 
this effect. 
13.6 A student cannot transfer credits from SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses for any other type of 
Courses not permitted in the concerned Curriculum. 
13.7 Students shall register for the approved Courses as per the schedule announced by 
SWAYAM-NPTEL. 
13.8 The credit equivalence for SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses: 12 weeks – 3credits; 8 weeks – 2 
credits; 4 weeks – 1 or 0 credits. 
13.9 The marks obtained by the student for such SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses will be converted 
to grades as per the evaluation guidelines (8.1) suggested.  
13.10 A student must submit the original SWAYAM-NPTEL Course Certificates to the Head of 
the Parent Department concerned, with a written request for the transfer of the equivalent 
credits. On verification of the SWAYAM-NPTEL Course Certificates and approval by the 
Head of the Department concerned, the SWAYAM-NPTEL Course(s) and equivalent 
Credits will be included in Course (with associated Credits) Registration of the concerned 
student in the Semester immediately following the completion of the SWAYAM-NPTEL 
Course(s). 
13.11 If any faculty is assigned for the evaluation of the courses taken through these platforms, 
he/she can evaluate like any regular course by following the assessment and evaluation 
guidelines. 
13.12 A student may submit a request for credit transfer from SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses before 
the last instruction day of the 8th Semester of the B.Tech. program as specified in the 
Academic Calendar. 
13.13 The Institute shall not reimburse any fees/expenses, a student may incur for the 
SWAYAM-NPTEL Courses. 
 
14. AWARD OF CLASS 
14.1 First Division with Distinction: A student who has passed all the prescribed courses 
with P are higher grade and without securing R, X, or U Grades during the period of study 
and with a CGPA of 8.00 and above is considered eligible for the award of First Division 
with Distinction. 
14.2 First Division: 
a) 
A student failing to satisfy Rule 14.1, even if he/she gets a CGPA of 8.00 or more 
will be eligible for the award of First Division only. 
b) 
A student with a CGPA of 6.50 and above but less than 8.00 is considered eligible 
for the award of First Division. 
14.3 Second Division: A student with a CGPA of 5.00 and above but less than 6.50 is 
considered eligible for the award of Second Division. 
 
15. MAKEUP EXAMINATION: 
Makeup examinations will be conducted once in an academic year, during summer. Students 
appearing in Makeup examination shall be governed by the following rules: 
 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
13 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
15.1 A Student with 'U' grade(s) can appear in Make-up examination conducted at the end of 
Academic year, or register in Study mode (including summer classes, if offered), 
whenever the course is offered. In case of Study mode, his/her previous marks/grades 
are cancelled and he/she will have to attend all classes and examinations along with next 
batch of students. Major changes in the timetable shall not be entertained to 
accommodate backlog students. 
15.2 Students with “R” Grade in any course are not eligible for writing the makeup examination 
for that course. 
15.3 Students with “U” or “I” Grade only are eligible to write makeup examination. The marks 
obtained by the student in continuous evaluation will be added to the marks obtained in 
makeup examination and will be graded as per the grading used for his/ her class. 
15.4 A student may appear any number of times in the makeup examination in the courses in 
which he / she has obtained "U" grade. 
15.5 The schedule for makeup examination will be given in the Academic calendar. 
15.6 A student can register for makeup examinations in any number of courses. The schedule 
of makeup examinations will not be altered to suit individual students. 
 
16. MINOR PROGRAM:  
Minor is an additional credential a student may earn if she/he does 15 credits worth of additional 
courses in a discipline other than her/his major discipline of B.Tech. degree. All academic units 
in the Institute offer minors in their disciplines, and will prescribe a specific set of courses and/or 
projects necessary for earning a minor in that discipline. 
16.1 Students with a minimum of 7.00 CGPA without any “U” Grade / backlog are only allowed 
to register for Minor program offered by any other Department. 
16.2 Students who are permitted to register for a Minor program will have to pay a onetime 
fee of Rs. 6,000/-.  
16.3 Students, satisfying the eligibility requirements may be permitted to do one minor/one 
honors or two minors or one minor and one Honors. 
16.4 Number of credits for earning Minor specialization is 15 with 5 courses or (4 courses + 1 
project for 3 credits), as prescribed by that Department. 
16.5 Courses for Minor specialization start from 3rd Semester and the student is required to 
register for one minor specialization course in every semester. 
16.6 Minimum and maximum number of students for any Minor specialization is 10 and 80 
respectively. 
16.7 Students registering for Minor program shall be prepared to write more than one exam in 
a day. 
16.8 After successful completion of the Minor specialization requirements, the student will be 
awarded a degree in “name of the discipline” with minor specialization in “name of the 
minor specialization”. 
16.9 NCC Minor: The students who are the cadets of NCC at school level are only eligible and 
hence the CGPA eligibility for this Minor is relaxed. This Minor program starts from 1st 
Semester and will be completing by 6th Semester. The credits for NCC Practical are 
treated as equal to that of a theory course. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
14 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
17 HONORS PROGRAM: Honors is an additional credential a student may earn if she/he opts 
for the extra 15 credits needed for this in her/his own discipline. The concerned department 
specifies the set of courses for earning Honors. Honors is not indicative of class. 
17.1 Students with a minimum of 7.50 CGPA without any “U” Grade / backlog are only allowed 
to register for Honors program offered by that Department. 
17.2 Students who are permitted to register for Honors program will have to pay a onetime fee 
of Rs. 6,000/-.  
17.3 Students, satisfying the eligibility requirements may be permitted to do one minor/one 
honours or two minors or one minor and one Honors. 
17.4 Number of credits for Honors program is 15 with 5 courses or (4 courses + 1 project for 
3 credits) as prescribed by that Department. 
17.5 Courses for Honors Program start from 5thSemester and the student is required to plan 
registration for Honors courses, in order to complete all the courses by the end of 8th 
Semester. 
17.6 Students registering for Honors program shall be prepared to attend classes and write 
examinations with M. Tech students. They shall be prepared to write more than one exam 
in a day. 
17.7 After successful completion of the Honors program, the student will be awarded a degree 
in “name of the discipline” with “Honors” 
 
18 SEMESTER INTERNSHIP: 
18.1 Students with CGPA more than 6.50 and having no backlogs up to 8th Semester will only 
be permitted to go for internship arranged through CCPD in the 8th Semester. 
18.2 Students will have to prepare the courses of 8th Semester on self-study mode and write 
Mid and End semester examinations whenever the institute conducts exams. 
18.3 The project carried out by the student during internship will be considered for project. 
18.4 The organization providing internship shall allow the students to present the data related 
to his/her project carried out during internship in the project report to be submitted to the 
institute for evaluation. 
18.5 Students can complete the elective courses of 8th Semester in 6th or 7th Semester so as 
to enable themselves for semester internship. However, the grades of these courses will 
be reflected in 8th Semester Grade sheet only. 
18.6 Students may be permitted to write exams (continuous evaluation) online. 
 
19 TEMPORARY WITHDRAWAL FROM THE INSTITUTE: 
19.1 A student who has been admitted to an undergraduate degree program of the institute 
may be permitted to withdraw temporarily for a period of one semester or more from the 
Institute on grounds of prolonged illness or acute problem in the family, which compelled 
him/her to stay at home, provided that 
• He/she applies to the Institute within 15 days of the commencement of the semester 
or from the date he/she last attended his/her classes whichever is later, stating fully 
the reasons for such withdrawal together with supporting documents and 
endorsement of the parent/guardian.  
• If the student applies for withdrawal before the start of the Semester or within 15 days 
of the commencement of the semester, he/she will be exempted from paying the 
tuition fee for that semester.  


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
15 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
• The Institute is satisfied that, including the period of withdrawal, the student is likely to 
complete his/her requirements for the degree within the time limits specified. 
• There are no outstanding dues against him/her or demands from him/her in the 
Institute/Hostel/Department/Library/NCC etc. 
19.2 A student, who has been granted temporary withdrawal from the Institute under the above 
provisions will be awarded 'W' grade. 
19.3 A student will be granted only one such temporary withdrawal during his/her tenure. 
 
20 TRANSITORY REGULATIONS: 
20.1 If a student who was admitted under the old regulations with the old curriculum is allowed 
to withdraw temporarily for one or two semesters (as per Clause 19) and then re- 
admitted, the new regulations with the new curriculum will apply to him/her from that 
Semester onwards. 
20.2 The student has to continue the course work along with the regular students of the 
respective semester in which the student gets re-admission. 
20.3 Credits and grades earned under the old regulations with the old curriculum will be 
transferred to the new regulations with the new curriculum. 
20.4 The student has to register for Substitute courses offered in place of courses already 
studied earlier or no longer offered in new regulations with the new curriculum and other 
Compulsory courses as specified by DAC-UG. 
20.5 If a student is readmitted to new regulations and a new curriculum after a temporary 
withdrawal and has not studied any courses in his/her previous regulations and 
curriculum of study, the student should be given the opportunity to register for that 
course(s) in study mode without changing the time tables. 
20.6 For the course(s) with “U” grade in earlier semesters (before re-admission), the student 
has to acquire credits from the make-up examinations as and when conducted. The 
question paper model shall remain same as the one in which the student first appeared 
for examination in that course(s). A student can register in study mode, if he /she is 
interested, with an equivalent course suggested by DAC-UG for the course in which 
he/she got “U” grade before re-admission. 
20.7 The decision of the DAC-UG is final on any other clarification in this regard. 
21.  CERTIFICATE RETENTION FEE: 
Students will be charged with Certificate retention fees as per the details shown below: 
All students – 
a) 
Who have passed in current and previous academic year 
- No charge 
b) 
Who have passed in the last 2 to 10 academic years 
- Rs.1,000/- 
c) 
Who have passed in the last 11 to 20 academic years 
- Rs.5,000/- 
d) 
Who have passed more than 20 academic years back 
- Rs.10,000/- 
 
22.  STUDENT FEEDBACK: 
It is mandatory for every student to submit the feedback on each and every course, he/she has 
undergone, at the end of every semester. At the end of 8th semester, Exit feedback is also to 
be submitted. Results will be withheld for those students who have not submitted the feedback. 
All such students have to a) pay a fine of Rs. 500/- b) obtain permission from Dean (Academic) 
and c) fill the feedback for viewing the withheld result. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
16 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
23. INSTITUTE LEVEL AWARDS: 
 Endowment awards in the form of merit certificates / cash prizes / gold medals / Alumni 
Gold medal will be distributed to the meritorious students on the Institute Day which will be 
held during the last working week of the academic year. 
 The Gold medals for the toppers of each branch and overall topper of the institute will be 
distributed on the Convocation Day which will be held during the month of August / 
September. 
 
24. EXAMINATION RECORDS: 
25.1 The valued answer scripts shall be preserved for a maximum period of 6 months after 
publication of results and submission of course files. 
25.2 Examination record of all students shall be maintained in both soft and hard copy form in 
the Examination Branch. 
 
25. CHANGE OF REGULATIONS: 
The academic programs of the Institute are governed by Rules and Regulations approved by 
the Senate from time to time. The Senate is a statutory and supreme body that governs all 
academic matters of the Institute, and the rulings of Chairman, Senate (Director of the Institute) 
are final in regard to all academic issues. 
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate, has the right to modify any of the 
above rules and regulations from time to time. All such modifications shall be documented and 
numbered sequentially and will be made available on the Institute website under Ordinances. 
 
26. SUMMER COURSES 
 
The Summer Courses will be offered only for 1st year and 2nd year courses.  
 
Summer course (7 weeks) will be offered if the number of students with U grade are > 10. 
When a summer course is offered, it will be compulsory for all students with ‘U’ grade in that 
course to register.  
 
Students with R grade are not permitted to register for Summer Courses. 
 
The Grade earned by the student in Summer courses shall be reduced (except for “P” grade) 
by one grade.  
 
Students with CGPA < 5.00 are also permitted to register for the Summer Course to improve 
their grades. The higher of the two grades will be retained.  
 
Students who wish to register for summer courses will have to pay a fee of Rs. 2,000/- per 
credit.  
27. Integrated M.Tech (B.Tech – M.Tech) 
 
The integrated M. Tech. degree program is a five year program derived by full integration 
of B. Tech. and M. Tech. programs in the respective discipline. 
 
B Tech students of NIT Warangal, having a CGPA > 8.00 (Open/OBC) / 7.50 
(SC/ST/PWD) at the end of 6th semester are eligible for Integrated M.Tech with 5 years 
duration 
 
During 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th semesters students shall register a mix of B. Tech. and M. 
Tech. courses so as to complete all the credit requirements within five year time. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
17 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Integrated M. Tech. degree students shall earn a minimum of 190-200 Credits. 
 
The student shall be given an exit option at the end of FOURTH year. 
 
After completion of FIVE years, the student shall be awarded both B.Tech and M.Tech 
Degrees.  
 
Students doing Honors are permitted to opt for M.Tech. in the relevant specialization 
based on the courses taken in Honors.  
 
The credits earned in Honors will be transferred. 
 
They need not do a project as part of their B.Tech. However, they are required to carry 
out M.Tech. Dissertation in 9th and 10th semesters on par with regular M.Tech students. 
 
They have to complete all the core courses of B.Tech and study a few more courses from 
the respective M.Tech. Specialization as suggested by the department to earn the 
minimum credits. 
 
Students, who are in their V year having a valid GATE score will be paid stipend on par 
with regular M.Tech students. 
 
A maximum of 5 seats may be permitted in a specialization. 
28. B.Tech – PhD 
 
B.Tech. students from reputed CFTIs, having a CGPA more than 8.00 (Open/OBC) / 7.50 
(SC/ST/PWD) are eligible for Full Time Ph.D. 
 
The student shall have qualified in GATE. 
 
The student has to complete 18 credits of course work. 
 
All the other regulations are same as that of Full-Time PhD scholars. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
18 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ACADEMIC COMMITTEES: FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Committee 
Constitution of the 
Committee 
Guidelines 
Functions 
DEPARTMENTAL ACADEMIC COMMITTE – UG 
(DAC-UG) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Department 
Members: All 
Professors and 
Associate Professors 
and Faculty Advisors 
 Tenure: two years. 
 The Head of the 
Department will nominate 
one of the members as 
secretary. 
 There shall be one DAC- 
UG for every department 
that is involved in the 
teaching for the B.Tech 
program. 
 There shall be one DAC- 
UG for each of the basic 
science and Humanities 
and Social Science 
Departments. 
 The Chairman may co-opt 
and/or invite more 
members including 
external experts while 
framing the curriculum/or 
revising the curriculum 
 To monitor the conduct of all 
undergraduate courses 
offered by the Department 
and course work of 
undergraduate program. 
 To ensure academic 
standards and excellence of 
the courses offered by the 
department. 
 Review and Recommend the 
grades to senate for approval. 
 To consolidate the registration 
of the students and 
communicate to the course 
instructor and Dean- 
Academic. 
 To consider any matter 
related to the undergraduate 
program(s) of the Department. 
 To take up any responsibility 
or function assigned by the 
Senate or the Chairman of the 
Senate or Chairman of DAC- 
UG. 
 To report the cases of 
malpractices to the 
Malpractices and Disciplinary 
Action Committee. 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
19 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
CLASS REVIEW COMMITTEEE 
(CRC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Dept. / Senior Faculty 
of the Department 
concerned, preferably 
not associated with 
teaching of the class, 
to be nominated by the 
Head of the 
Department 
concerned. 
Members: All faculty 
members handling the 
class, Six students, to 
be chosen by the 
students of the class 
from amongst 
Every Class (group of 
students registered for 
a course and taking 
the course together in 
a section/class) of the 
UG Program shall 
have a Class Review 
Committee, consisting 
of Faculty and Students. 
 The Class Review Committee 
shall meet at least twice in a 
semester, once between four 
to five weeks and another 
between 10 to 11 weeks after 
the 
commencement 
of 
classwork. 
 The basic responsibilities of 
the Class Review Committee 
are to review periodically the 
progress of the classes, to 
discuss problems concerning 
curriculum and syllabi and the 
conduct of the classes. 
 The committee will review the 
performance of the class in 
various exams conducted as 
part  of  continuous evaluation 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
20 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
themselves. 
Convener / Secretary: 
Faculty advisor of the 
class 
Tenure: One Semester 
till that date. 
 Each CRC will communicate 
its recommendations to the 
Head of the Department / 
DAC-UG 
of 
the 
parent 
teaching department. 
 The minutes of each CRC 
meeting shall be recorded in a 
separate 
minutes 
register 
maintained 
in 
the 
parent/teaching department. 
 Any appropriate responsibility 
or function assigned by the 
DAC- UG or the chairman of 
the DAC- UG 
DEPARTMENTAL ACADEMIC APPEALS 
COMMITTEE (DAAC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Department 
Members: Three 
faculty members of the 
Department consisting 
of one Professor, one 
Associate Prof. and 
one Asst. Prof. 
 Nominee: One 
Professor from 
outside the 
Department 
nominated by Dean- 
Academic 
 There shall be one DAAC 
for every department. 
 The Chairman may co- 
opt and / or invite more 
members. 
 If the concerned 
instructor is a member of 
DAAC then he/she shall 
keep himself out of the 
Committee during 
deliberations. 
 The quorum for each 
meeting shall be a 
minimum of THREE 
(Professor from outside 
department is 
mandatory). 
 To receive grievance 
/complaints in writing from the 
students regarding anomaly in 
award of grades due to bias, 
victimization, erratic 
evaluation, etc. and redress 
the complaints. 
 To interact with the concerned 
course instructor and the 
student separately before 
taking the decision. 
 The decision of the DAAC will 
be based on simple majority 
 The recommendations of the 
DAAC shall be communicated 
to the Dean-Academic for 
further appropriate action as 
required. 
CURRICULUM 
DEVELOPMENT 
COMMITTEE (CDC) 
Chairman: Head of the 
Dept./Senior Professor 
Members: All 
professors and 
Associate 
Professors, Three 
External members: 
One from 
Academics, One 
from Industry, One 
from R&D labs (One 
of the above may be 
an alumnus 
 The Chairman will 
nominate one of the 
members as secretary. 
 The Chairman can co-
opt any other member 
 To develop the curriculum for 
the UG courses offered by the 
department and recommend 
the same to the Senate. 
 The CDC is required to meet 
at least once in two years. 
 To review the internal audit 
reports submitted by faculty 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
21 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
ACADEMIC AUDIT 
COMMITTEE – 
DEPT. 
(AACD) 
Chairman: Professor 
nominated by Director 
Members: One 
Department Nominee 
Convener: Head of the 
Department 
 The duration of the 
members of the 
committee will be two 
years 
 To recommend corrective 
measures, if any. 
 To send a consolidated report 
to Academic Audit Committee 
– Institute 


--- PAGE BREAK ---

U.G. - Regulations. 
w.e.f. 2024-25 
22 | P a g 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ACADEMIC AUDIT 
COMMITTEE – 
INSTITUTE 
(AACI) 
Chairman: Director 
 Members: Dean 
(Academic), Two 
professors nominated 
by Director 
 The members of the 
duration of the committee 
is TWO years. 
 To review the 
recommendations of AACD of 
each department 
 To initiate appropriate 
measures (counseling / 
training etc.). 
FACULTY ADVISOR 
Faculty Advisors: 
nominated by the Head 
of the Department 
 In case of UG, one 
Faculty advisor for each 
year. 
 To help the Students in 
planning their courses and 
activities during study. 
 To guide, advice and counsel 
the students on academic 
program and registration. 
 To register the students for the 
course work in both the 
Autumn and Spring 
Semesters. 
 To present the results of even 
and odd semesters to DAC- 
UG 
 
